

From an academic perspective, _____ will be a________. Ideally, this project will be a good mix of many things we have learned throughout our Computer Science studies, both in the classroom and in the workforce._______ will be a . This project will give us an opportunity to showcase some of our favorite pieces of knowledge that we picked up throughout our years at UC, including software engineering, and requirements engineering among many other classes. One of the most important ideas in computer science that we picked up early in our college careers was that software should be open source as much as possible and made available to anyone that wants to use it. This project will feel like a great way to cap our educational journey at UC because we will get to combine what we learned in the classroom with what we learned on co-op to create a tangible product that will provide a service to others that is not currently available.

I believe that many classes that I have taken at UC will end up being beneficial during this project, some of which were Computer Science I (CS1021C), Data Structures (CS2028), Software Engineering (EECE3093C), Requirements Engineering (CS5127), Software Testing and QA (EECE4092), and Technical Writing (ENGL4092). In CSI  I learned many things about basic programming that I still find important today. Software Engineering and Requirements Engineering will both be very important to our planning and definition phases that we will be working on in the next few weeks. Finally, Technical Writing skills will be important for writeups for our Senior Design class and assignments, as well as for technical documentation of the final product when it is completed.

The bulk of my co-op experience that I consider most valuable was spent at Seven Hills Technology as a software engineer in co-op semesters 3 through 5. While on co-op at SHT, I was able to learn a lot about full stack web development, which will come in handy for a majority of this project. For starters, while I have the most experience and familiarity in AngularJS on the front end, I believe my group will choose to use a different frontend framework so we can learn something new throughout the course of this project. While we will probably not use a framework that we are familiar with on the frontend, our previous frontend development in Angular and other frameworks will transfer over well to our new framework in this project. Next, while we will more than likely not have a large database schema to complete this project, my experience with SQL databases will likely be used as the dataset we will have for this project will not be best represented with a NoSQL database. I routinely participate in sprint planning meetings at work which will definitely provide a useful base when laying out our user stories and tasks during the planning phase of this project in the near future. Finally, I was fortunate enough to be involved in the deployment process of several projects while on co-op and I believe that knowledge will be helpful towards the end of our project when it comes time to deploy and do final testing before demoing our project.

I’m very excited to begin work on this project because there isn’t a product available for purchase or free that is a consumer facing user interface for Triton DataCenter. The company I work for, Seven Hills Technology, owns three servers out in California that currently run TDC on them, and I know from experience that the current user interface they have available to them is not very user friendly, and I am motivated to make sure my project is completed well, because I know that it will improve the usability of TDC. My preliminary approach to design a solution to this problem was fairly simple: I looked through the current abilities of TDC’s available user interface and sat down with my group to brainstorm about all the features that we would want in a perfect world for this interface and narrowed down what was best and what was most necessary. While we have a general idea of what we want to do with the application, we will finalize this list in the coming weeks during the completion of our user stories and tasks in the next few assignments. After we finalize our stories and tasks, we plan to divide up the work evenly, without focusing each individual person on any one part, so we can split up the work evenly and everyone gets their hands on different parts of the application so we all learn something new throughout the process. At the end of the project, my group all hopes to have some new items to add on their resume and much more experience to talk about in an interview.

My expected result for this project is a full functional user interface for Triton DataCenter, that is designed well and easy to use for the end user. The biggest accomplishment I can see us having at the end of this project is when it is released as open source software and we see when someone (or some company) begins to either use our software or fork the repository and add on to what we have built. We will know we have done a good job if it is nice to use at the end and if it is well received and used by anyone besides us. As my drive for finishing this project is for it to be used by other random people online, I find myself driven to make it look very pleasing on the eye and easy to understand so no one is hesitant to use it based on the user experience. I will evaluate my own contributions based on how my code stands up to the code of my partners in similar areas of the project, and by that I mean I will evaluate it on how it runs, efficiently speaking, as well as how it looks, readability wise. In the end, I see us having a well designed user interface that is easy to understand, as well as having code that is clean and concise, and just as easy for someone to come in and add features to it, in true open source fashion.
